hi guys aded leak here so yesterday
Google's performance Summit put out a
live stream uh which highlighted
Innovations and new new ad technology
coming to the Google platforms and they
also confirm the shift to mobile has
happened so mobile search uh and mobile
website traffic as a whole globally has
now eclipsed desktop traffic that
actually happened at the end of last
year in
2015 uh they also confirmed that there's
over 2 trillion search per year on
Google which is colossal the equivalent
of about 4 million or nearly 4 million
searches every minute of the day uh
crazy numbers absolutely crazy so also
uh confirmation that Google certainly
still has a very large search audience a
very big customer base um for you and I
as advertisers and business
owners in this video I want to cover the
key takeaways from the the summit
because there's some really juicy
information in there that's going to
help business owners advertisers and
marketers going forwards into this year
uh well the rest of this year we're
already halfway there uh but into end of
2016 and
2017 um starting with tablet bidding is
back this is brilliant news so if you're
an AdWords Advertiser at the minute
you'll or you should know that you can
only adjust bids on your desktop and
mobile devices so you can bid up uh or
bid down now if you look at your your ad
performance and your analytics you will
see that tablet devices are typically a
good portion of your traffic and
therefore your your budget you know your
budget spend on your adword so the
ability to now bid up and bid down is
critical really important and gives us
more flexibility as
advertisers next on the list is another
kick in the gonads for SEO um if you
watch my Google deletes the right side
video um sort of five six weeks ago I
mentioned that you know SEO is getting a
bit of a slap well this is yet another
one so what's happening here is Google's
rolling out a new ad format which will
have a longer headline and a longer
description essentially making the
advert bigger and pushing down the
organic results on the page so Google's
been trialing these ads and and they've
seen across the board about a 20% uplift
in click-through rate which is it's
considerable if you believe the the
stats of versus PPC in terms of
clickthrough rates most people suggest
that organic um gets the The Lion Share
which I do not believe particularly on
mobile and this this 20% boost uh in
click-through uh for me and for a lot of
our accounts would suggest that actually
now on a mobile device paid ads will get
the line share so it's it's going to
swing further in favor of paid which is
which is what Google wants and here's a
really interesting thing again mentioned
in my uh Google deletes right side ads
video Facebook so Facebook's ad platform
is is very good it's powerful it's got
great audience targeting which is very
important to get your message in front
of the right people so Google's now
rolling out similar audiences plus
demographic targeting on the search
Network so this is in direct response to
Facebook's uh a bit of a strangle hold
on the demographic Mark U targeting uh
for facilities and the similar the
lookalike audiences that Facebook has
cuz they're both really powerful so this
is great news for business owners and
marketers because it means we get more
options more targeting you know we can
use Facebook we can use AdWords now in a
similar vein so that's great that's good
for us a bit of com healthy competition
between Big G and big
F uh is that right yeah big F all right
um that's good that's good for
us so another really really juicy
Edition is responsive mobile display ads
now whether or not you're currently on
the Display Network or not you need to
prepare for these ads CU essentially
what these are are dynamically generated
adverts that are in line on a uh a
Display Network website so a partner
website you don't have to do any design
work you don't have to do any creative
work this is literally providing the
information and and Google's uh platform
will now dynamically generate the adverb
to suit the website that it's on and its
surroundings hence the the term native
so it looks like it's part of the
website I can see these being really
powerful uh really simple to implement
and if you get your targeting right in
the context of the website to your you
know suits your audience so your
placement is on a website that's in
context I can see these performing
particularly well and of course these
are a Counterattack to to Facebook
because Facebook is a native advertising
platform
and another interesting one is that
Google's bastardizing its Maps because
it it's been playing and testing with
ads on maps for oh KY years now they've
confirmed we're in a mobile first world
and of course maps are a pretty Central
and crucial to to the mobile device I'm
I'm sure you've used a map on your
mobile to to to find things to find a
place a shop or whatever so yeah these
promoted pinned ads on maps are going to
be really potent for particularly bigger
retailers admittedly but still um you
know the search intent when someone's in
a location is really strong so these ads
are going to be potent for most most
people even smaller businesses where
it's going to be particularly powerful
is if you've got your inventory on
Google and you've got local inventories
per bricks and morar store so you can if
someone's searching for a specific
product and they're in the local of that
store you can put a add on the map to
suit you can even invite them in with a
a discount you know on the spot discount
or look at the trends and patterns of
your of your existing buyers and their
habits and you you might find an an
upsell or a cross sell opportunity
reflected in that product that
search and not an additional functional
feature but AdWords is over 15 years old
my goodness how time flies so over the
coming 12 to 18 months Google are
releasing a redesign thankfully this
won't affect any functionality because
they're adding enough stuff as it is so
uh this is just a lick of pain this is
going to improve the usability if you're
familiar with the AdWords and analytics
app for your Android or iOS device which
are pretty slick and easy to use and
they give you the top level metrics to
hand I think the desktop platform from
what I've been shown privately is
definitely going in that direction it
gives you snapshots and overviews um
of digestible information I think it's
the right thing to do it it's looking
good from what I've seen they're going
to be rolling out a beta to random
advertisers of all shapes and sizes so
you you know don't you can't plead for
Access but you may be given access so I
think that's quite interesting it's
certainly long
overdue right so plan your attack these
changes are coming over the next few
months the next two quarters um and the
interface change in a year or so but
that's that's going to have less impact
on your immediate performance what you
need to take away from this and
understand is that we very much are in a
mobile first world so you're your
website has to be hot on a mobile
device and to be fair a tablet as well
so if you if you've got budget for
design and development you want to be
putting it into your your mobile assets
and your mobile offering making sure
that your your mobile conversion rates
are approaching or in line with desktop
it can be difficult in some Industries
but you know you got to get on top of
that also so prepare for the tablet bid
adjustments which are coming uh in the
next few months you want to be looking
at your historic Trends um you know
traffic and conversion rates for for
tablet devices and and just get ready to
to either bid up or bid down so you take
your five 10% top performers in your
your campaigns you know your ad groups
your keywords and it's as simple as that
really put money in what works and take
money away from from what
doesn't if you're not lot on the Display
Network this will be the time to jump on
the bandwagon with the responsive uh
display ads so you know it's not a heck
of a lot of prep you can do for this but
again put put something to paper
document a mini strategy of where you
want to place your ads what's going to
be in them uh and just get ready to to
be able to place your Dynamic content
natively on like-minded websites because
even testing a little bit of your budget
maybe 5 or 10% here would be a very wise
thing to do I I can see these native
responsive ads going particularly well
especially in the e-commerce industry
and that's about it really so lots of
interesting features coming I think it's
very positive for the Google ad platform
in my humble opinion lots of features
that I'm Keen to see and get using i'
I'd also be Keen to hear what you think
is there is there anything you can see
there that's positive negative how are
you going to implement it and of course
if you got any any questions about uh
tactics and strategies for this uh
please do let me know uh and until the
next time thanks for watching and I'll
catch you soon cheers